# Introduction

A trait which is common between almost all aquatic lifeforms is their ability to move. They could move on their own accord, or be forced by an external force such as currents and other organisms. When animals move, they usually always have reasons to move. The most basic reasons behind animal movement are to seek out more favorable conditions and avoiding unfavorable ones. Collectively, because every organism is moving around, they transport nutrients, biomass, and dynamic energy across distinct ecosystems. [@Hussey2015]

To study this further, technology needs to be able to effectively track an animal. Recently developed aquatic telemetry technology allows us now to effectively and cheaply track animals. [@Creekmore2011] Today, there are two main ways to track aquatic animals, acoustic and satellite telemetry. [@Hussey2015]. Animals which are tagged with acoustic devices are detected by receivers based on the ground, such as on a buoy or boat. Satellite devices communicate via satellites overhead which then relay the data to a land based data collection facility. Along with the technology to effectively track animals, high resolution satellite imagery has allowed us to accurately capture and describe the environments these organisms live in. [@Yemane2009]

Animal movement simulations usually have two components. The first component is the grid, or the simulated environment. The second component is the model, which was ran on the grid. An example of a grid could be a lake or of section of a sea. This grid will be broken up into cells, each containing data about the conditions in that cell. For a model, the two most basic statistics describing a grid is the mortality factor, which describes how bad the cell is, and the growth, which describes how fruitful the cell is. Together, these two statistics can be subtracted to achieve the habitat quality [@Watkins2014], as shown in the equation below :
(@eq_habitat) $Habitat Quality = Growth - Mortality$

The model portion of the simulation is more complex than the grid portion. These usually simulates and follow the entire lifetime of multiple tracks, with each track starting on the grid at a determined location. These simulations usually have very complex calculations in attempt to closely simulate what a real animal would do when put into a similar grid. [@Watkins2014]
