# Methods

## Requirements

For my project, I set a goal of creating a tool which allows users to more easily  deal with the grid and tracks data generated by animal movement models. Depending on the amount of detailed required, these files are often quite large and have a lot of data for the user to potentially utilize. If my project made wrapping this data in a format which allows a user to more easily use it, then it will be more accessible to people.

As I wish for the data from these models to be more accessible, I went with the programming language Python to implement my project in. Along with being a fairly easy language to learn, Python is also very powerful. Due to its popularity, there are many libraries built using Python. Python  is also widely used in the scientific community because of it's ease of data calculation and visualization. My project, pytracks, does this by building on what Python does as a language by making programming accessible to more people.  Pytracks expresses the data raw text files exported by the modeling problems to the user in a pythonic way, saving the user effort and development time for their potential project.

The place that pytracks fits into a visualization project using data data generated from a movement model can be shown in Figure \ref{fig_flow} below.

![This shows a 4 step flowchart describing steps required to visualize movement model data. On the left are the steps, and on the right is what users usually use and what was also used in my examples. In the parenthesis shows that pytracks handles the input step and part of the processing step. If pytracks is not used, then the user would have to write all the code to input data and also some to process the data. This shows how much pytracks helps with the entire process.\label{fig_flow}](source/figures/flow.pdf)

## Pytracks Module Structure

As Python libraries should be, pytracks was coded in a modular fashion. There are 4 submodules and 7 main classes in pytracks, each wrapping specific part of the raw data the user specified to read in. Table \ref{ref_tbl_structure} shows us the structure.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Module   Class           Description
-------  --------------  -------------------------------------------------------
input    GridWrapper     Wraps a grid data file into a Grid object

input    TrackWrapper    Wraps a track data file into a TrackSet object

grid     Cell            Describes a single cell in your grid

grid     Grid            Holds Cell classes used to describe the grid

track    Track           Describes the entire lifetime of a single track

track    TrackSet        Holds Track classes with internal methods

stats    Stats           Generates a statistical overview of your track data

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Table: This table shows the modular structure of pytracks. \label{ref_tbl_structure}
