# Data

## Source

In all of my examples I used data generated by models written by Katherine Shepard Watkins and Kenneth A. Rose. The reference [@Watkins2014] goes into further detail with the construction of this model.

## Raw Data Requirements

This explains the format in which the data must be in.

###File Requirements

1. Raw text file
2. One entry per line
3. Tab or whitespace seperated
4. File can hold multiple sets of data. See the Sectioned parameter in the input methods in ``pytracks.input``.

Table \ref{ref_tbl_grid_file} and Table \ref{ref_tbl_track_file} below show the format pytracks expects the data to be in by default. The values below are the default ids used in the program. Every column ID can be changed except *Sec ID*, which must be the first column and thus have an ID of 0. You can have multiple extra data columns, which must be specified when wrapping the data file with the appropiate function.

###Grid File

------------------------------------
Sec ID    Track ID   X   Y   Extra
--------  ---------- --- --- -------
0         1          2   3   4-N       
------------------------------------

Table: This table shows the structure of a tracks data file pytracks expects by default. This format can be modified when wrapping the file with *GridWrapper*. \label{ref_tbl_grid_file}

###Tracks File

-------------------------------------------------------------------
Sec ID    Track ID   X   Y   Grow   Mort   Worth   Weight   Extra
--------  ---------- --- --- ------ ------ ------- -------- -------
0         1          2   3   4      5      6       7        8-N
-------------------------------------------------------------------

Table: This table shows the structure of a tracks data file pytracks expects by default. This format can be modified when wrapping the file with *TrackWrapper*. \label{ref_tbl_track_file}
